Node tutorial revamp (#7095)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/tutorials/build-a-node-js-and-react-app-with-npm.adoc

by forking the sample repository of the application's source code into your own
GitHub account and then cloning this fork locally.

. Ensure you are signed in to your GitHub account.
If you don't yet have a GitHub account, sign up for a free one on the https://github.com/[GitHub website].

> Fork the https://github.com/jenkins-docs/simple-node-js-react-npm-app[`simple-node-js-react-npm-app`] on GitHub into your local GitHub account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Fork the https://github.com/jenkins-docs/simple-node-js-react-npm-app[`simple-node-js-react-npm-app`] on GitHub into your local GitHub account.
```
adding back `.` to return numbered list

   `git clone \https://github.com/YOUR-GITHUB-ACCOUNT-NAME/simple-node-js-react-npm-app` +
   where `YOUR-GITHUB-ACCOUNT-NAME` is the name of your GitHub account.

=== Start your Jenkins instance

1. Obtain the latest Jenkins instance, customized for this tutorial, by cloning the link:https://github.com/jenkins-docs/quickstart-tutorials.git[quickstart-tutorials repository].

> 2. After cloning, navigate to the `quickstart-tutorials` directory, and execute the command `docker compose up -d node` to run the example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. After cloning, navigate to the `quickstart-tutorials` directory and execute the command `docker compose up -d node` to run the example.
```
Removing extra `,` where it is unnecessary.

3. Once the containers are running successfully (you can verify this with `docker compose ps`), the controller can be accessed at http://localhost:8080.

> If you are unable to install `docker compose` on your machine for any reason, you can still run the example in the cloud for free thanks to link:https://www.gitpod.io/[GitPod]. GitPod link:https://www.gitpod.io/pricing[is free] for 50 hours per month.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are unable to install `docker compose` on your machine for any reason, you can still run the example in the cloud for free thanks to link:https://www.gitpod.io/[GitPod].
GitPod link:https://www.gitpod.io/pricing[is free] for 50 hours per month.
```
separating full sentences per line

You need to link it to your GitHub account so you can run the example in the cloud.

> Click on link:https://gitpod.io/?autostart=true#https://github.com/jenkins-docs/quickstart-tutorials[that link] to open a new browser tab with a GitPod workspace where you'll be able to start the Jenkins instance, and run the rest of the tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Utilize link:https://gitpod.io/?autostart=true#https://github.com/jenkins-docs/quickstart-tutorials[this link] to open a new browser tab with a GitPod workspace where you'll be able to start the Jenkins instance and run the rest of the tutorial.
```
Update link text, suggestion to use "utilize" instead of "click".

Now, log in using the `admin` username and `admin` password.

=== Create your Pipeline project in Jenkins

. In Jenkins, select *New Item* under *Dashboard >* at the top left.

> . Enter your new Pipeline project name in *Enter an item name* (e.g. `simple-node-js-react-npm-app`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Enter your new Pipeline project name, such as `simple-node-js-react-npm-app`, in *Enter an item name*.
```
Suggestion to rearrange the wording and [remove `e.g.`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/e/eg)

. Scroll down if necessary and select *Pipeline*, then select *OK* at the end of the page.
. (Optional) Enter a Pipeline *Description*.
. Select *Pipeline* on the left pane.

> . Select *Definition*, and then choose the *Pipeline script from SCM* option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select *Definition* and then choose the *Pipeline script from SCM* option.
```
Suggestion to remove unnecessary `,`.

This option instructs Jenkins to obtain your Pipeline from the source control management (SCM), which is your forked Git repository.
. Choose *Git* from the options in *SCM*.

> . Enter the URL of your repository in *Repositories/Repository URL*. This URL can be found when clicking on the green *Code* button in the main page of your GitHub repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Enter the URL of your repository in *Repositories/Repository URL*.
This URL can be found when selecting the green *Code* button in the main page of your GitHub repo.
```
Suggestion to separate full sentences, suggestion to use "selecting" over "clicking".

. Copy the following Declarative Pipeline code and paste it into your empty
  `Jenkinsfile`:
+
[source,groovy,subs="attributes+"]
----
pipeline {
    agent any
    stages {
        stage('Build') { // <1>
            steps {
                sh 'npm install' // <2>
            }
        }
    }
}
----
<1> Defines a link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#stage[`stage`] (directive) called `Build` that appears on the Jenkins UI.

> <2> This link:/doc/pipeline/steps/workflow-durable-task-step/#code-sh-code-shell-script[`sh`] step (of the link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#steps[`steps`] section) executes
> the `npm` command to ensure that all dependencies required to run your application have been downloaded to the `node_modules` workspace directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> This link:/doc/pipeline/steps/workflow-durable-task-step/#code-sh-code-shell-script[`sh`] step (of the link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#steps[`steps`] section) executes the `npm` command to ensure that all dependencies required to run your application have been downloaded to the `node_modules` workspace directory.
```
Combining lines to form one full sentence.

. Save your edited `Jenkinsfile` and commit it to your local `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` Git repository.

> E.g. Within the  `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` directory, run the commands: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within the  `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` directory, run the commands: +
```
Not sure why the "E.g." here, removing as it seems unnecessary.

  `git add .` +
  then +
  `git commit -m "Add initial Jenkinsfile"` +
 and finally +
`git push` to push your changes to your forked repository on GitHub, so it can be picked up by Jenkins.

. Now click on *Build Now* on the left pane of your Pipeline project in Jenkins.
After making a clone of your local `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` Git repository itself, Jenkins:

. Initially queues the project to be run on the agent.
. Runs the `Build` stage defined in the `Jenkinsfile` on the agent.

During this time, npm downloads and installs many artifacts necessary to build your node/js application, which are ultimately stored in Jenkins' local `npm` repository.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/npm-install-logs.png[alt="npm install",width=100%]

> You can now click on *#1* to see the details of the build. You will then see how much time the build took waiting in the queue, and how much time it took to run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now select *#1* to see the details of the build.
You will then see how much time the build took waiting in the queue, and how much time it took to run.
```
Separate full sentences to each line, suggestion to use "select" over "click".

[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/build-details.png[alt="Build details",width=100%]

> On the left, you can click on *Pipeline Overview* to see the stages of the Pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the left navigation pane, you can select *Pipeline Overview* to see the stages of the Pipeline.
```
Suggestion to provide more clear direction for users and using "select" over "click".

. Save your edited `Jenkinsfile` and commit it to your local
  `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` Git repository. E.g. Within the
  `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` directory, run the commands: +
  `git add .` +
  then +
  `git commit -m "Add 'Test' stage"` +
and finally +
`git push` to push your changes to your forked repository on GitHub, so it can be picked up by Jenkins.

. In Jenkins, go back to *Dashboard* if necessary, then *simple-node-js-react-npm-app* and launch another build thanks to *Build Now*.
. After a while, a new column *Test* appear in the *Stage View*.

[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/test-stage.png[alt="Test stage",width=100%]

> . You can click on *#2* or on the number representing your last build on the left, under *Build History*. You will then see the details of the build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. You can select*#2* or on the number representing your last build on the left, under *Build History*.
You will then see the details of the build.
```
Suggestion to separate full sentences and use "select" over "click".

+
If Docker has not restarted since you last ran the Pipeline <<create-your-initial-pipeline-as-a-jenkinsfile,above>>, then no `npm` artifacts are downloaded during the "Build" stage.
Therefore, running your Pipeline this subsequent time should be much faster.

> You can now click on *Pipeline Overview* to see the stages of the Pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now select *Pipeline Overview* to see the stages of the Pipeline.
```
Suggestion to use ["select" instead of "click"](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/c/click).

. Save your edited `Jenkinsfile` and commit it to your local
  `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` Git repository. E.g. Within the
  `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` directory, run the commands: +
  `git add .` +
  then +
  `git commit -m "Add 'Deliver' stage"` +
and finally +
`git push` to push your changes to your forked repository on GitHub, so it can be picked up by Jenkins.

> . In Jenkins, sign in if necessary, and go back to the *Dashboard* and then *`simple-node-js-react-npm-app`* or go directly to *`simple-node-js-react-npm-app`* depending on where you're starting from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In Jenkins, sign in if necessary, go back to the *Dashboard* and then navigate to *`simple-node-js-react-npm-app`*.
Alternatively, you can go directly to *`simple-node-js-react-npm-app`* depending on where you're starting from.
```
Suggestion to adjust the wording and sentence structure here.

> . Select *Build Now* on the left. You should see after a while a new column *Deliver* appear in the *Stage View*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select *Build Now* on the left.
You should see after a while a new column *Deliver* appear in the *Stage View*.
```
Suggestion to separate full sentences.

+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/deliver-stage.png[alt="Deliver stage",width=100%]

> Click on *#3* or on the number representing your last build on the left, under *Build History*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select *#3* or on the number representing your last build on the left, under *Build History*.
```
Suggestion to use "Select" over "Click".
